# Mobile-Architect-and-Programming

This app is relatively basic but captures all of the user requirements that were demanded of this app. To start, I was requested to design an app to assists uisers with inventory management. The users requested that the app demand for a valid user login that was cross-checked with a database for proper authentication. Following valid login credentials the user would see the main dashboard of the app which consisted of all of the inventory items. Each inventory item held an inventory item name, SKU, category and quantity valid. I added a setting spage that was extremely basic in design with the onlytrue setting change for this app at this current state was to enable/disable SMS messaging. A key user requirement for this app was to have an alert for low quantity items thus if SMS messaging is enabled, the users are alerted if an item quantity goes below 5 items avaialble. The last screens designed in this build were edit and addition screens. When a user wanted to add an inventory item, they would select the add button and then enter the required information. After completing the entry, the item was added to the database and reflected on the dashboard. On the dashboard, the user can select the edit button to adjust information on the selected item. This UI design kept users in mind through the whole process. I though about how I would want to use the app when working in a previous position where I was responsible for inventory management. I thought about what aspects would make the app most user friendly while also completing the overall task objective. By keeping the user in mind through the entire build process and placing a heavy emphasis on user engagement with the app, this app's design should be considered very sucessful. When building this app, I faced a number of challenges as I am still a growing developer. I gain more exposure and knowledge with Java as I continue to work on various projects but there is always more to learn. The best approach and technique I have used in order to build my projects up to this point is to make small strides toward the overall project. I chip away at the project with smaller methods, functions or features of an app and then verify each piece that I construct fits what I was seeking to achieve. If this additional piece that I created meets my expectations, then I begin to work on a new piece and tie the pieces together. This stratergy is basic but has proven to be sucessful over and over again thus I will continue to utilize this approach method in the future. Unfortunately with this project, I did not take advantage of designing unit tests or anything to that nature. As great as it would have been to implement unit tests to improve my testing and ultimately make my testing more efficient, I chose to perform trial and error testing. With alterations to my code and various screens, I would refresh my build and execute my app to then walk through how the user would use the app. This testing process is crucial to a build as there were often areas where I found a bug in my code or the code didn't work exactly how I wanted the code to work so it required me to tweak the code. For example, when enabling and disabling the SMS messaging, I noticed that the app would register and allow for the SMS messages to be enabled but it didn't actually disable the SMS messages, even if the toggle switch was turned off. Another test finding I found was when constructing the app, the layout appeared how I wanted it to in the developer mode but when running the actual app, the screen display appeared off center which ultimately made the app look unorganized. This overall app appearance could deter users from using the app as it took away from the aethetics of the app. From start to finish, this app development process was very eye opening and rewarding when it was all set and done. It is hard to pick one area that I found exceptionally challenging and required me to be innovative in the approach I took to design my app. If I had to pick one area that was exceptionally challenging for me, it would be configuring the aesthetics of the app. I often had the developer mode showing that the app would look aethetically pleasing and meet my desires but then when I tested the app, the columns were slightly off centered and left me unpleased with the results. This correction process was increasingly challenging and frustrating as in order to test that the visualization met my demands, I needed to go through the login process every time and there was about a minute delay from altering my code, to refreshing the build, then performing the login in the emulator in order to truly see if my fix was made. Overall, I would say my dashboard component best demonstrates my knowledge, skills and esperience up to this point of my professional growth. My dashboard component is capable of displaying my inventory items in a visually pleasing manner while reaching back and performing a get request for database information to be displayed. This dashboard is able to interact with edit and delete buttons to directly communicate with the database and accurately reflect the changes on the dashboard. Additionally, the dashboard featured my settings button that allowed the user to navigate to the settings page in order to make SMS messaging changes, if they desired. 

NOTE: Unfortunately my complete project zip file is larger than the 25 MB restriction placed on upoloading files to GitHub thus I neeed to add my files separately. My complete zip file can be supplied upon request. 
